# PowerShell Core Community Call - July 20, 2017

## Agenda

* Roadmap blog
* Try out your stuff on .NET Standard 2.0 (Beta.4)
* https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/issues/4062
* Maintainers? RFCs?

## Notes

* PSSA rules for xCLR/x-plat/xPS
  * active analysis vs. static analysis: appcompat toolkit doing this for a while
  * Ping Darwin for pointer
* ETW/perf counters in .NET Full
* Figuring out order of loading Nuget dependencies is tricky
  * Trevor would love better tooling on dependency management
* Need to think through scenario where a dependency is only required on one platform
  * VSSetup for Windows, nothing for mac/Linux
* Would be nice to point at a module folder or manifest (not installed from the Gallery) and get all the dependencies
  * npm install, dotnet restore, etc.
* Examples on calling native libraries on macOS/Linux
  * Example: Gather hardware metrics (disk, cpu, etc.)
  * Used iStats Ruby gem that uses Ruby native library to call into native macOS library
  * Pointer to examples of native PInvokes on non-Windows:
    https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell/blob/master/src/System.Management.Automation/CoreCLR/CorePsPlatform.cs
* MSI plan is to move away from side-by-side
  * Upgrade via MSI for patch versions
  * Side by side via MSI for new minor versions (6.1, 6.2, 7.0, etc)
    * Look into standard MSI rules; currently not supposed to do side-by-side with minor versions
    * Theoretically, every file GUID remains the same, folders associated with the component
  * Side by Side via ZIP will always work
  * https://github.com/PowerShell/PowerShell-RFC/pull/97
* Jupyter spec calls for ZeroMQ
  * Tell David about this
* Not really related to dependencies, but does Core already support Desired State Configuration declarative 'function' types?
* Look into environment variable for PowerShell version
  * What's the Python/Ruby equivalent here?
  * Do package managers on Linux support install-time environment variable creation?
  * Overriding process level; not having to parse a path at the process level
* Swag for the next call?
  * Talk to Michael Greene