---RFC: 0004Author: J. Keith BankstonStatus: DraftArea: PowerShell Gallery, Module VersioningComments Due: 5/28/2016---# Module Naming and Versioning for PowerShell GalleryThe original naming guidelines for PowerShell DSC resources stated that a module would start out named "x-Something" for experimental to indicate that it was a community-developed module, and that when a module reached a production-ready state, it needed to be renamed to just "Something" (without the x prefix). This was based on faulty assumptions, and the result was that code developed using the experimental module would have to be modified to accommodate the production version.Aligning the guidelines with Semantic Versioning (SemVer) addresses these issues by using version numbers to describe the state of the code. No naming or versioning scheme is perfect. The advantages to aligning with Semantic Versioning are * It is well described at [semver.org](http://www.semver.org), and has been broadly adopted. * Semantic Versioning covers the states that are of greatest concern* This approach leaves the names of modules, commands, and resources unmodified as the state changes## MotivationWhen PowerShell DSC was released, the original guidelines for module naming were released along with a set of example DSC resources. At that time, it was believed those modules would be built into Windows, so the names were protected for future use by identifying them with "x" for experimental, with the rest of the name reserved. This plan allowed the modules to be renamed without the "x" prefix when it shipped as part of the Windows OS. Unfortunately, the names of modules and DSC resources are built into the code developed by customers who consume those modules. As modules move from experimental to a production-ready state, the developers who follow the original guidelines are faced with the choice of breaking compatibility with previous users by renaming the modules, or staying with a naming convention that indicates the code to be experimental. PowerShell has moved to align with more common open source development practices, wherein code is developed in public forums such as [github.com/powershell](https://github.com/powershell), then published to a repository like the [PowerShell Gallery](https://powershellgallery.com). Using  the [PowerShell Gallery](https://powershellgallery.com) as a delivery vehicle allows Microsoft to avoid concerns about reserving a name for use in Windows, which allows more choices for a solution.## SpecificationThis RFC proposes the following guideline for the naming and versioning of modules published to the [PowerShell Gallery](https://powershellgallery.com):* Modules, scripts, commands, and DSC resources should be named as they are expected to be used, regardless of the state (experimental, preview, production, etc.)* Modules, scripts, commands, and DSC resources should be versioned in a way that aligns with Semantic Versioning, meaning:  * Versions contain at least 3 segments separated by periods: Major.Minor.Patch  * Major version number changes if changes are made that are incompatible with the previous version  * Minor version number changes if functionality is added in a backwards-compatible manner  * Patch version number changes when there is an update that is backwards-compatible and does not add new features  * If a 4th segment is used, it indicates a build number only, with no changes in the component. *Note that this is an open issue** Major version 0 (0.x.y) indicates code that is experimental. Version 1.0.0 is expected to be a production-ready version of the code.* Preview versions of major updates released after the module reaches production-ready state: If the developer desires to publish a preview or experimental copy of a major update, they should do so via a project development site such as GitHub. *Note that this is an open issue.** This guideline affects publishing PowerShell modules, commands, scripts, and DSC resources via the [PowerShell Gallery](https://powershellgallery.com), and should not be implied as having broader applicability. ### Alternate Proposals and Considerations* Strict adherence to SemVer excludes support for build number.   * In the proposal, build number has been added due to unavoidable issues caused by internal Microsoft build systems.   * The assumption is that so long as the build number implies no meaning and no change to the item, it can be ignored.* Dealing with preview versions of major updates  * This proposal avoids the issue by not providing support in the guidelines for non-production versions released after a 1.0.0 version is delivered via the PowerShell Gallery.   * *Alternative 1:* Developers could release a new package to the gallery with a package name indicating the preview state, while the module and code names remained unchanged. Since the package name does not conflict, it could be published to the gallery with any version. The issue that results with this approach is that the preview module would remain in the Gallery long its value as an early view of new work is gone.   * *Alternative 2:* Support the SemVer approach of adding strings such as "-Alpha" as part of the Patch element of the version. In this scheme 2.0.0-Preview would indicate a preview release of a major update to some item. This is preferable, but cannot be supported in PowerShell today. Any module versioning scheme we choose must work in PowerShell, which relies on the .Net version checking APIs that only support numbers. That makes this not a viable option today.   * *Alternative 3:* Developers could publish the update with a major version of 0, so long as the numbers in Minor.Patch was greater than what existed previously. This option was discussed, but it is not being considered as it has a large number of problems. It does not align with any other versioning scheme, and it has the likelihood of confusing consumers. The PowerShell Gallery does not currently support this, as one can only publish using a version that is higher than what existed before - and 1.0.0 is greater than 0.(anything). The Gallery could be modified to support this, but it does not today. #### Open QuestionsIs there a better alternative for dealing with preview releases of major versions? 