# PowerShell Community Call - November 17th 2022

## Agenda

- PS7.3 GA - @SteveL-MSFT
- FeedbackProvider - @daxian-dbw
- Update on PSGallery stats - @alerickson
- OpenSSH 9.1 - @tgauth
- Crescendo 1.1.0-preview @theJasonHelmick
- VSCode Updates @andshwa
- Docs Update @sdwheeler
- PowerShellGet interface work @anamnavi
- AzPS Compat Issue - Damien Caro
- Community Update
- Community Demos
  - Justin Grote - Module Fast
  - Mike Kanakos

## Notes

- 7.3 Updates
  - 7.3 GA release! Non-LTS release, 18months of support aligned with .NET 7.
  - 7.0 will be out of support Dec 3rd
  - 7.2 in support till Nov 2024
  - 7.4 will be next LTS release, first preview may not be until Jan
  - Plan to have servicing release in December for 7.3, please continue to report issues with 7.3!
- Feedback Provider - replacing current the error suggestions for mistyped cmdlets/cmds which is
  just fuzzy matching
  - two feedback providers are included. Can test out with next 7.4 preview.
  - unix command not found but in PowerShell
  - feedback provider but also uses the same information for predictor results.
- PowerShell Gallery Stats
  - statistics issues again, pipeline is outdated and complex, unsure when we are going to have this
    issue resolved.
  - workaround, email psgallerysupport@microsoft.com and be able to run a specific query
  - Or open an issue on the PowerShellGallery github
- OpenSSH
  - Spending more time working on triaging github repo
  - Windows inbox, open work item for windows update bug with config changes after updates
- Crescendo 1.1.0 preview
  - Close to releasing new preview! Possibly next week (Nov 21- )
  - New schema, for new features, bypass output handler entirely
  - Improved error handling
  - Check out crescendo deep dive for London Working Group meeting in Jan
- VS Code Updates
  - Stable update 2022.11.0
  - Focused on client side of things, fresh new modern linter in strict mode, able to make
    improvements on client side going forward
  - Regression of OnIdle handler, but is now fixed!
  - Pipeline was silently overwriting out release bits, caused a preformance issue but is now fixed
    and with regression tests
  - "PowerShell Editor services DryIoc error" is now fixed
- Docs Update
  - Lots of community involvement lately! Hacktoberfest shout out to Emil Larsson!
  - Considering doing a live hack-a-doc session at PSSummit
  - CloudShell documentation
- PSGet Interface work
  - Working on performance improvement for find and install scenarios
  - Thanks to community for feedback
- AzPS Compat Issue
  - With 7.3 relying on .NET7 has introduced a breaking change for AzPS modules, automappers
  - 9-10 modules that have been impacted by this. Identified in July but still working on resolving
  - Patch is released with a new AzPS module.
  - Going to work on postmortem and will implement ability to check on previews in build pipelines
- Community Update
  - Recognize the community for coming out in force for PSSummit CfP! Almost 200 submissions for talks!
  - HUGE THANKS!!
  - PSSummit is April, PSConfEU is June
- Community Demos!
  - Module Fast
  - SendMailMessage
