# PowerShell Community Call - June 16, 2022

## Agenda

- Intern projects (@ayousuf23 and Sarah)
- Demo Codex module (@SteveL-MSFT)
- PSGallery outage (@alerickson)
- VSCode updates (@SydneyhSmith)
- Docs update (@michaeltlombardi )
- Community updates (@compwiz32)
- Demo Graph X-ray (Merill Fernando)

## Notes

- Welcome to the June Community Call!
- Please meet our two interns for the summer. Abdullah and Sarah!
  - Abdullah is starting on updating the PowerShell Archive module
  - Sarah will be working on many things including a walkthrough experience for VSCode.
    - [Link to form](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=v4j5cvGGr0GRqy180BHbRw-WZhqb4hNHjtzNJKfGTo5UNjNXNFAwMDdDOUNIM0FYUE8zUERFRU5GVS4u)
- Steve Lee's work on OpenAI Codex
  - Please watch Steve's demo
  - This predicts code from a description you type
    - Steve has a demo module [here](https://www.powershellgallery.com/packages/Codex/0.1.0-Beta)
  - This can provide a starting point for code - but its in its early stages.
- PSGallery outage
  - The Gallery experienced an outage of approx. 2 hours
  - This impacted the Application registrations for the Gallery
    - We are migrating app registrations from our Microsoft tenant to the new tenant - this is when
      the failure occurred.
  - We did test this migration which was successful, however in production this failed.
  - We are in the process of understanding the root cause
- VSCode updates
  - Early this week we released a preview extension that we are moving into production
  - We have finished a major rewrite on PowerShell editor services
    - We focuses on scenarios where VSCode is the client
    - We also got the code working for non-VSCode clients
    - We also fixed issues with IntelliSense
  - We continue to build out automated regression tests for the extension
  - Thanks Andy and Patrick for the work!
- Docs update
  - New articles have been added mostly around secret store and secret managmeent.
  - New content for creating
    [Crescendo configuration with cmdlets](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/community/2022-updates#2022-may)
    - Thanks to Tommy Maynard for all the contributions this month
    - New articles!
      - [Avoid using Invoke-Expression](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/learn/deep-dives/avoid-using-invoke-expression?view=powershell-7.2)
      - [Avoid assigning variables in expressions](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/scripting/learn/deep-dives/avoid-assigning-variables-in-expressions?view=powershell-7.2)
      - [About_case-sensitivity](https://docs.microsoft.com/powershell/module/microsoft.powershell.core/about/about_case-sensitivity)
- Community Update!
  - Community update from Mike Kanakos
  - This is an chance to highlight the community events outside of Microsoft
  - Why Community?
    - There is plenty of areas you can participate in
    - There are community events to join to learn and increase your knowledge together
    - Events and user groups
      - We can always use additional help form people interested in running or participating in user
        groups.
      - The Raleigh NC user group meets twice a month
        - We will talk about YouGet on July 6th
        - We will also have a discussion of Pester
      - The NY user group meets once a month - this month talk is PowerScripts
      - In August there is a two day event, including PowerShell Saturday
        - For more information, check out the links below and join the user groups on Meetup.com.
  - Check here for links and updates to
    [user group meetings](https://www.evernote.com/shard/s1/client/snv?noteGuid=46a0d3f4-3455-35fa-36b1-5442d403a76b&noteKey=02909e565fa2df31ee671d8e67c44358&sn=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.evernote.com%2Fshard%2Fs1%2Fsh%2F46a0d3f4-3455-35fa-36b1-5442d403a76b%2F02909e565fa2df31ee671d8e67c44358&title=MS%2BPowerShell%2BCommunity%2BCall%2B-%2BThursday%252C%2BJune%2B16%252C%2B2022)
  - Reviewers needed for Manning book.
    - The book publisher Manning is looking for reviewers to participate
    - If your interested in participating in the PowerShell live project, please contact Mike
      Kanakos
- Demo's
  - Graph x-ray
    - This helps automate the graph API's in the portal.
  - Python parser hosting
    - Jim demonstrates the use of Python to invoke the PowerShell parser
- Questions
  - PowerShellGet V3 release preview 14.
    - Highlights are credential assistance and resource file objects for install operations.
    - We are planning to have another release in the next few weeks that includes authenticode checks
    - We are close to feature release as we focus on performance.
  - Suggestion form Mike K - to add a discussion about modules that the community uses to get work
    done. We agree that this would be very useful to provide during the community call. AS Steve
    also suggested, this call is a great chance for the community to add to the conversation, such
    as "What did you just learn about PowerShell that you didn't know yesterday?"

