# PowerShell Community Call - September 21 2023

## Agenda

- PS Adapters Release @StevenBucher98
- WinGet Feedback Provider @carlos-zamora @crutkas
- Experimental Features for 7.4 @SteveL-MSFT
- PSresourceGet rc release @anamnavi @SydneyhSmith @alerickson
- Docs update @sdwheeler
- VS Code pre-release(s) (and upcoming stable release) @SydneyhSmith
- DSC alpha.2 @mgreenegit @SteveL-MSFT
- PSReadLine GA - @StevenBucher98
- Gallery potential intermittent connection issues on Thursday (moving prod to Front Door) and stats
  update @SydneyhSmith
- Ignite @SydneyhSmith @StevenBucher98
- November End-of-Year Community Call (2nd Thursday of the month) @SteveL-MSFT
- December Community Call @SteveL-MSFT

## Notes

- PS Adapters Release @StevenBucher98
  - This is you may have previously seen this as being referred to as JSON adapters. We have changed
    the name and released it to be under the PowerShell.
  - Microsoft.PowerShell.PSAdapters
  - https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/powershell-adapter-feedback-provider/
  - Demo (See video)

- WinGet Feedback Provider @carlos-zamora @crutkas
  - I'm here to talk about a a new PowerShell module we've been working on called command not found.
  - We have it a draft PR open in the power toys repo so you can take a look at all the code that's
    behind all this and what our fall back system is. I just wanted to say on it is this is still a
    work in progress right now.
  - https://github.com/microsoft/PowerToys/pull/26319
  - And so we're taking advantage of the Feedback predictor and the no the feedback provider and the
    command predictor.
  - So when you start typing in your result, it actually autocompletes it for you, which is pretty
    cool.
  - Demo (See video)

- Experimental Features for 7.4 @SteveL-MSFT
  - if you guys have feedback, if you think something's not ready or if you have questions or
    whatever, contact us, feel free to just add it as comments in this discussion.
  - we have constraint language mode and lockdown mode
  - people get confused by these two things and it's not simply that if you sign your script, things
    just magically work. There are other how your script interacts with other things, whether
    they're signed or not.
  - Also behavior changes, so the the logging here basically allows you to have WDAC audit mode and
    then everything will work because it actually runs in full language mode, but we will actually
    do the additional check and say if you were actually in lockdown, what would have actually
    happened.
  - We have prevented this from working stuff like that, so this should make it easier for
    administrators trying to enable WWDC enforcement mode to know what actually is gonna happen via
    audit.
  - The table header.
  - or any partial table, if the heading is actually not a property on the object, but it's
    something that's synthetic for formatting, then it has a different rendering and so in this
    allows you to change that declaration as well.
  - PS Windows Native command
  - passing has gone through multiple iterations trying to fix things that come up, but basically
    based on looking at telemetry, it looks like people have not been changing it back to legacy.
  - So we feel like this is stable enough that we want this to be default in 7.4
  - The Native Action command or action preference
  - This is where if you have a native command and it emits a non 0 exit code, then we interpret
    that as failure and we will synthetically generate a PowerShell error.
  - That way you can handle a native commands and commandlet error handling in a similar way.
  - Keep in mind that although this feature is going to be moved to stable, you'll still be false by
    default, meaning that by default there's no behavioral change and you have to actually
    explicitly set the reference variable to true so that native non 0 exit goes act the same as
    partial errors, and then the last one is the native pipe.

- PSresourceGet rc release @anamnavi @SydneyhSmith @alerickson
  - 2 weeks ago we released the RC for PSResourceGet
  - This has been a very long time coming, so the huge thank you to all the communities, support and
    issues and feedback that has gotten us to this point.
  - minor bug fixes.
  - I expect a GA to be coming soon.

- Docs update @sdwheeler
  - in the table of contents here you have this filter box and what this allows you to do is you can
    start typing and this acts as a filter and it's filtering on the title of the article.
  - This is called a search scope and not every doc set on the learn platform has a search scope
    defined, but I have that for PowerShell
  - Monday of next week is a new feedback control at the bottom of the page.
  - New in documentation, there's been a ton of work done in the DSC V3 space.
  - Crescendo 1.1 released and the docs have been updated for that.
  - We also have this new article about feedback providers how to create your own feedback provider
    with sample code

- VS Code pre-release(s) (and upcoming stable release) @SydneyhSmith
  - we've had two preview releases of the PowerShell Extension and DSC code.
  - These have primary been bug fixes, bug fix focused
  - There have also been some Community contributions in there, but just thanks to Andy Patrick and
    I think Justin had a few PR's that go went in there as well for making these releases happen.
  - In terms of next steps that you can expect for the extension, we have another preview release.
    It's kind of ready to go that we're expecting to get out early next week.
  - barring no major issues, we're gonna roll that into stable probably later next week.

- DSC alpha.2 @mgreenegit @SteveL-MSFT
  - We're making steady progress through DC3 and I'll just call out a couple of the big changes in
    the A2.
  - These are primarily being requested by some of our partners, but basically instead of searching
    by the path, if you have a DSC resource, underscore path, we'll use that instead.
  - Also, if you have specific sequencing of how you want resources to be invoked, you can use
    depends on.
  - So expert was the other big thing.
  - This is like the kind like the reverse DSC, where if you had mainly configured a system you
    wanna suck out all the configurations you can apply somewhere else.
  - We are working towards an A3 which hopefully will come out next week.

- PSReadLine GA - @StevenBucher98
  - Primary feature changes are with list view and predictors which we've posted about in our blogs
    already with the previous releases.

- Gallery potential intermittent connection issues on Thursday (moving prod to Front Door) and stats
  update @SydneyhSmith
  - So a couple of quick updates about the gallery.
  - one of the agenda items was referencing a potential down time on the gallery due to a change we
    were making with Azure front door. And I want to say that that change actually happened last
    week and was very successful
  - One other thing I was going to mention about the gallery is many folks have reported we're well
    aware that thanks to many reports that stats were down for a period of time on the gallery, I'm
    very happy to announce that as of this morning we have resolved this issue and stats are
    officially fully working again.

- Ignite @SydneyhSmith @StevenBucher98
  - Microsoft Ignite is coming up in November 14th -17th
  - So I'm I'm working on so many of you who have attended ignite in the past, May know that there's
    oftentimes been a PowerShell community event at Ignite, and I'm working on planning that right
    now.
  - So if I could get any sense of like, hey, I'm thinking about attending in person, that's super
    useful to me in terms of like starting to kind of make those plans
  - There will be a PowerShell presence and in addition to that I'm working on planning a PowerShell
    community event.

- November End-of-Year Community Call (2nd Thursday of the month) @SteveL-MSFT
  - Appreciate every all the community members and all the team members that participate in these
    monthly community calls.
  - Over the last few years we've been doing this, we've always cancelled November because it
    coincides with Thanksgiving, And then December would typically also cancel
  - This year - 2nd Thursday of November be our end of year community call
  - So the other thinking was because the N1 would be the last community call for the officially
    from the team that leaves open if the community themselves wanna do a call in December for
    whoever is available, that will be something that we would be interested in helping the
    coordinate. -
- Demos (See video)
