# PowerShell Community Call - February 15 2024

## Agenda

- PowerShell 7.5 - Aditya
- Pseudo-terminal support - Patrick
- Platform support - Jason
- Bug fixes and community PRs - Sydney
- PSGallery Fundamentals work - Aditya
- New types of repositories for PSResourceGet - Anam
- Concurrent installs - Amber
- Local caching of artifact details - Amber
- Intelligence in the shell - Steven
- Configuration - Michael
- Win32_OpenSSH - Danny
- SSHDConfig - Tess
- Help system - Jason
- Welcome Justin
- Docs update - Sean
- Working Group membership form - Jason

## Notes

**ALERT:** The March's community call will be hosted at 7:00 PM Pacific Time.  (not our normal 9:30 AM)

- **PowerShell and OpenSSH Community Call:** This is a recording of a meeting that took place on
  February 15, 2024, where the PowerShell and OpenSSH teams shared their updates, plans, and
  feedback with the community.

- **PowerShell 7.5 Preview:** Aditya Patwardhan announced the release of PowerShell 7.5 Preview 1,
  based on .NET 9 Preview 1, and the roadmap for future previews and GA later in the year.
- **Pseudoterminal Support:** Patrick Meinecke explained the benefits of using pseudoterminals for
  native executables, such as enabling interactive, colored, and formatted output without
  redirection, and enabling feedback providers and output parsing.
- **Platform Support:** Jason Helmick talked about the challenges and improvements of building,
  testing, and releasing PowerShell for various platforms and architectures, and the plans to create
  a prioritized backlog of distributions and a public release schedule.
- **Bug Fixes and Community PRs:** Sydney Smith emphasized the goal of making PowerShell 7.5 a
  community-focused release, and the efforts to prioritize and review the existing PRs from the
  community over new features from the team. She also addressed some questions and concerns about
  the Community Mondays and the activity in the PowerShell repo.
- **Gallery Fundamentals:** Aditya Patwardhan mentioned the focus on improving the reliability and
  performance of the PowerShell Gallery, and hinted at some possible new features later in the year.
- **Intelligence in the Shell:** Steven Bucher reiterated the commitment to bringing a deeper level
  of intelligence to the shell through PSReadLine and other improvements, such as natural language
  chat experiences2.
- **PSResource and Container Registries:** Anam Navied and Amber Erickson shared the plans to add
  support for container registries, both public and private, for PSResource, and to improve the find
  and install experience with concurrency and local caching3.
- **Configuration:** Michael Greene invited the community to check out the DSC repo and the issues
  list, and to give feedback on the scenarios and features for DSC v3. He also announced a new alpha
  release coming soon4.
- **OpenSSH:** Danny Maertens and Tess Gauthier talked about some exciting things coming up for
  OpenSSH that they could not reveal yet, and some ongoing work on SSHD config, a DSC resource to
  manage the SSHD config file for the OpenSSH server.
- **Help System:** Jason Helmick announced the work on PlatyPS, a tool to create updatable help for
  PowerShell cmdlets, and the collaboration with the Docs team to improve the PowerShell
  documentation and reference pipeline. He also mentioned some new scenarios and features that
  PlatyPS will enable in the future.
- **Other Projects:** Steven Bucher listed some of the other projects that the team is maintaining,
  such as the VS Code extension, PSScriptAnalyzer, ConsoleGuiTools, TextUtility, PSReadLine, and
  SecretManagement5.


